# Agent-Based-Modeling
This project implements an agent-based model for simulating navigation of a road network. In this model, a system is represented as a collection of autonomous decision-making entities called agents, which operate in an environment consisting of a road network. Each agent has some knowledge about the environment, which is a combination of local and global knowledge. Local knowledge refers to knowing well a specific neighborhood, while global knowledge refers to how much an agent knows about the entire environment.

I use a parameter to define how many of an environment's nodes and landmarks an agent may know, which is calculated by multiplying the number of nodes or landmarks by this parameter. The parameter values used in experiments range from 0.1 to 1.0. To determine which elements of the environment an agent knows, a strategy is employed that divides landmarks and streets into three bins based on their prominence, and assigns a range of numbers to each bin reflecting the likelihood of being chosen in selecting known elements. This allows for realistic simulations where even agents with seemingly 'complete' knowledge about an environment will not necessarily know every single element of the environment.

Each agent in simulation starts at the origin node and aims to reach the destination node on the most direct (i.e., shortest) path. The agent's navigation strategy is to take the first route-defining location it finds in the instructions and move to that node using the shortest path if it corresponds to an element it knows, or if the location is a node directly adjacent to the current node. Otherwise, the agent 'searches' for the location by computing the k-th shortest path, where k is a random value between 1 and 10. To avoid arbitrarily long deviations, I limit the length of the k-th shortest path to being no more than three times longer than the shortest path between the agent's current location and the next element in the route-defining locations list.


